# Maths

Purpose - The purpose of these notes is to set up basic fundamentals knowledge required for programming. Its not an in-dept look into mathematics.

Possible Topics - 

1. Boolean algebra
2. Numeral systems
3. Floating points
4. Logarithms
5. Set Theory
6. Combinatorics
7. Graph Theory
8. Complexity Theory
9. Statistics
10. Linear Algebra


## Numbers

Source : https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLh-uxFrOdsq_vbmo1V4G8wKVC0bFx4G61


Tree Diagram to Understand\

1. Numbers
    - Real Numbers
        - Rational numbers - $p/q$
            - Integers -   
            - Fractions - 
        - Irrational numbers - $\sqrt{2},\sqrt[3]{2}..$
    - Imaginary Numbers
1. **Natural Numbers** : Positive integers from 1 to infinity - N = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ……….}
2. **Whole numbers** : Non-negative integers - W = {0,1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ……….}
3. **Integers** : Whole numbers but it includes a negative numbers - Z = { -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3}
4. **Real Numbers** : All the positive and negative integers, fractional and decimal numbers without imaginary numbers are called real numbers. Represent by `R`. Numbers which be located in the number.
5. **Rational Numbers** : Any number that can be written as a ratio of one number over another number is written as rational numbers. This means that any number that can be written in the form of p/q. The symbol “Q” represents the rational number - Ex : $1/7$  
6. **Irrational Numbers**: The number that cannot be expressed as the ratio of one over another is known as irrational numbers.Also known as surds. Ex:  $\sqrt{2}$
7. **Complex Numbers** : The number that can be written in the form of a+bi where “a and b” are the real number and “i” is an imaginary number is known as complex numbers “C”.
8. **Imaginary Numbers** : The imaginary numbers are the complex numbers that can be written in the form of the product of a real number and the imaginary unit “i”.
9. **Composite Numbers** : A composite number is a number that has more than two factors. For example, 4 is a composite number, as the number 4 is divisible by 1, 2, and 4. Other examples of composite numbers are 6, 8, 9, 10, and so on.

If we try to calculate the result of \
$1/7 = 0.14285714285$ - Notice repeat of 1428... So there is a pattern here  
$\sqrt{2} = 1.41421356237 $ - No Logical pattern visible


## VBOADMAS

1. V = Vinculumn = Bar on Numbers
2. $\overline{3+2} * 5$ ?So first the equation under the file will be calculated.
    - $5*5 = 25$ 

## Modulus

1. Function that indicates distance of one number from another number on the number line.
2. Suppose a statement $|x-3| = 5$. 
    - It indicates that distance between x & 3 is 5.
    - It we take 3 in the numberline then get either x as -2 if we go left 5 times on the number line or 8 if we go right 5 times on the number line. So the answer is (-2,8)
4. Lets take $|x| = 3$. What is x ?
    - We can take the above concept so we can persive the above line as $|x-0|=3$
    - So x can either be (-3,3)
5. $|x+2| = 3$, Find x?
    - We need to consider +2 as -2 in this case. So it will be written as 
    - $|x-(-2)| = 3$ which is ultimately the same as above. But writing like this helps us to accurately find x
    - So -2 on the number line. Go left thrice we get -5 & go right thrice we get 1. So the answer is (-5,1)
6. $|x-3|>2$. Find x ?
    - This is an Inequality so get range for 'x' instead of finite values.
    - So take 3 on the number line. Go left twice & we arrive at 1.Go right twice of 3 & we get 5.
    - But instead of '=' we have '>' now so it means our expected value of x has to be greater or smaller than this. 
    - Solution : $x>5$ & $x<1$
        - Which also can be written as $(-\infty,1)U(5,\infty)$


## Greatest Integer Value / Function ( GIF/GIV )

1. Greatest integer less than or equal to the given value. Ex:
    - $G[3]=3$
    - $G[-3]=-3$
    - $G[2.6]=2$ - First Integer on the left side of number
    - $G[6.99]=6$
    - $G[-2.1]=-3$

## Least Integer Value / Function ( LIF/LIV )

1. Ex:
    - $L[3]=3$
    - $L[-3]=-3$
    - $L[2.6]=3$ - First Integer on the right side of number
    - $L[6.99]=7$
    - $L[-2.1]=-2$
    
## Factors

1. Also know as divisors
2. Ex: Factors of 15 are 15,5,3,1
3. Multiples of 15 are 15 , 30 , 45 to $-\infty$

### Prime Numbers

1. Numbers which have exactly 2 factors. 1 & itself.
2. $2$ is the only even prime number  rest all are odd.
3. $1$ is neither prime nor composite
4. There are $25$ prime number between 1 to 100.


### Composite Number

1. Nothing but composition of prime numbers
2. Ex: 6 is a composite number. $6 = 2 * 3$
3. Ex: 12 is a composite number. $12 = 2 * 2 * 3$
4. Ex: 27 is a composite number. $27 = 3 * 3 * 3$
5. So this process of breaking a composite number into its prime factors is called Prime Factorization

## Prime Factorization 

1. $ N = a^q * b^q * c^r..$
    - $ 6 = 2^1 * 3^1$
    - $ 12 = 2^2 * 3^1 $
    - $ 60 = 2^2 * 3^1 * 5^1 $
    - $ 27 = 3^3 $
1. Number of Factors for a number $ N = (p+1)(q+1)(r+1)$. Where $p,q,r$ are the powers as mentioned in the first point.
1. So what will he number of factors for say 360. N is number of Factors
    - $360 = 2^3 * 3^2 * 5^1$
    - $ N = (3+1) * (2+1) * (1+1) $
    - $ N = 4 * 3  * 2$
    - $ N = 24 $

### Test for Prime Number

1. If a number 'N' is not divisible by any prime number less than $\sqrt{N}$, then N is a prime number.
2. Lets take an example.
    - Say N is 199. Is it a prime
    - Now $\sqrt{199}$ I cannot figure out without a calculator. So we take the closest one
    - $\sqrt{196} = 14 $
    - So we can divide using the prime number that comes between 1 & 14.
    - So we can check through 2,3..11,13

## HCF - Highest Common Factors

1. Lets take 2 number 12 & 18
    - Factors of $12=1,2,3,4,6,12$
    - Factors of $18=1,2,3,6,9,18$
    - Common Factors ( CF ) are $1,2,3,6$
    - Highest is $6$. So $6$ is HCF.
2. HCF can never be bigger than the numbers
3. Divides
4. HCF of Fractions = HCF of Numerators / LCM of Denominators

## LCM - Lowest Common Multiple

1. Lets take 2 numbers 12 & 18.
    - Multiple of $12 = 12,24,36,48,60,72...$
    - Multiple of $18 = 18,36,54,72,90,108...$
    - Common are $36,72...$
    - Least is $36$. So LCM is $36$
2. LCM can never be smaller than the numbers
3. Divisible
4. LCM of Fractions = LCM of Numerators / HCF of Denominators 

## HCF/LCM by Prime Factorization

1. Fast method to figure out HCF/LCM
2. Lets find HCF/LCM of $(48,84)$
    - Factors of $ 48=2^4*3^1$
    - Factors of $ 84=2^2*3^1*7^1$
    - For HCF , get the common primes so
        - $2,3$
        - Take their minimun powers so $2^2,3^1$ & multiply the result 
        - So HCF is $12$
    - For LCM , get all primes mentioned in the factor above. Keep only 1 instance.
        - $2,3,7$
        - Take their maximum powers so $2^4,3^1,7^1$ & Multiply
        - So LCM is $336$

## Co-Prime Numbers

1. Numbers which have HCF $1$ are classified as co-prime numbers
2. For Example: $HCF(8,15) = 1$

### Euler's Number

1. Represented as $\phi(N)$
1. Number which are less than and Co-prime to 'N'
1. Find $\phi(12)$
    - Co-prime to $12 = 1,5,7,11$. So 4 co-primes less than 12 so
    - $\phi(12)$ = 4
1. There is formula for finding $\phi(N)$ which is 
    - $\phi(N) = N * (1-1/a) * (1-1/b)...$ where a,b are factors
1. Again if we calculate $\phi(12)$
    - Factors of $12 = 2^2*3^1$
    - $\phi(12) = 12 * (1-1/2) * (1-1/3)$ - Once we calculate this we get.
    - $\phi(12) = 4$

### Product of 2 no. A * B = HCF(A,B) * LCM(A,B)

## DIVISIBLITY TEST

1. By 2 --> Last Digit should be 0,2,4,6,8
2. By 4 --> Last 2 Digits should be divisible by 4
    - is $1328$ divisible by $4$
    - Yes since $28$ is divisible by 4.
3. By 8 --> By 3 Digits should be divisible by 8.
4. By 3 --> Sum of Digits should be divisible by 3.
5. By 9 --> Sum of Digits should be divisible by 9.
7. By 6 --> If a number is divisible by both 2 & 3. It will be divisible by 6.
8. By 12 --> If a number is divisible by both 3 & 4. It will be divisible by 12.
9. So the trick for bigger numbers is to split the number in smaller co-primes.
10. By 7 --> Double the last digit & substract it from other digits
    - $343$ 
    - $346$ 3 is doubled
    - $34-6$ substracted from rest of digits which comes as $28$ 
    - $28$ is divisble by 7 so this way $343$ is divisible by 7.

## Negative Remainders 

1. If we divide $12/5$ , if we take $12- 5*2 = 2$ we get 2 as +ve remainder. However we can also take $12 - 5*3 = -3$ so we get -3 as -ve remainder

