# Containers and Network

1. Lets assume we have app which
    - Makes an HTTPS call - outside our network
    - Connects to Mongo DB - separate container
1. Out of the box , containers can send requests to the WWW. Don't need any special setup or changes to code
1. If you are hosting an application or an DB that docker needs to connect to , we cannot use `localhost` in that case. We need to use `host.docker.internal`.\
So instead of `mongodb://localhost:2107/swfavorites`\
to `mongodb://host.docker.internal:2107/swfavorites`

1. Example to setup mongo DB docker. We are not exposing port are we are not planning to connect to it from our localhost. Instead we will connect to it using another container

```
docker run -d \
--name mongodb \
mongo
```

1. We can inspect the container we just started - `$ docker container inspect mongodb` 

1. Under NetworkSettings -> IPAddress -> `172.17.0.2`
1. IP address of our container. If we can copy this 
& use it here\
`mongodb://172.17.0.2:2107/swfavorites`\
Then our 1st container should be able to connect to this mongoDB.
1. The above works but its kinda cumbersome.

## Creating Container Networks

1. We can put all the containers in the same network on the docker run command. This creates a network where all containers are able to talk to each other. Within a docker network, all containers can communicate with each other and IP's are automatically resolved.

1. Lets create a network

```bash
$ docker network create favorites-net
dbb943484ea910b1440a5f12b57b23ce8da755fa6e2053ae0a07e25004dda37d
```
1. Check existing networks - `docker network ls`
1. Start a container with the network

```bash
$ docker run -d --rm \
--name mongodb \
--network favorites-net \
mongo
f75f074626e414bcd016af7dc590e1fff4afb1f17bac10b6c7e70ee8eef760db
```

1. Now the question is how the containers talk to each other. We can just use its name \
`mongodb://mongodb:2107/swfavorites`

1. Build and run the node app

```bash
docker run -p 3000:3000 -d --rm \
--name favorites \
--network favorites-net \
favorites-node:latest
```
