# VPC ( Virtual Private Cloud )

1. Think of it as a Virtual Data Center in the cloud.
1. Logically isolated part of the AWS cloud where we can define our own network.
1. Additionally we can create a hardware VPN connection between our corporate data center and our VPC.
1. What can we do with a VPC ?
    - We can launch instaces into a subnet of our choosing.
    - Custom IP address range
    - Route Tables
    - Attach Internet Gateway to our VPC
    - ðŸ›‘ More Control - Access Control List ( NACL's ) to block specific IP Addresses
1. It comes with Default VPC
1. ðŸ›‘ 1 Subnet is always in 1 AZ.
1. ðŸ›‘ IPv4 CIDR Block sizes must be between a '/16' and '/28' netmask.
1. ðŸ›‘ What is by default / automatically created when we create our VPC ?
    - Route table
    - ACL
    - Security Group
1. ðŸ›‘ First 4 IP Addresses and last IP address in each subnet CIDR block are not available to use.
1. How to Make a subnet public with a custom VPC and get a route out to the internet ?
    - Enable auto assign public IPv4 for our subnet
    - Create Internet Gateway and attach to VPC. ðŸ›‘ 1 VPC can only have 1 Internet Gateway.
    - Create a Route Table for our custom VPC and add a route from destination `0.0.0.0` to our internet gateway created above. That gives us a route out to the internet
    - For the newly created Route Table , head over to 'subnet association' -> 'explicit subnet association' -> allow public subnet to go into the route table.

## NAT Gateway ( Network Address Translation )

1. We can use NAT gateway to enable instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet or other AWS services while preventing the internet from intiating a connection with those instances
1. Redundant inside AZ , not associated with SG , automatically assigned IP Address

## Security Group ( Statefull ) 

1. Security Group is Statefull

## Network ACL ( Stateless )

1. Network Access Control List is an optional layer of security that acts as a firewall for controlling traffic in out of one or more subnets
1. By defaut created alongside VPC. By default allows all outbound and inbound traffic. For Custom it denies all by Default.
1. ðŸ›‘ Block IP addresses using network ACL's not security groups
1. ðŸ›‘ 1 subnet can only be associated with 1 Network ACL

## VPC Endpoints 

1. ðŸ›‘ VPC endpoint enables you to private connect to our VPC supports AWS Services.
1. ðŸ›‘  Traffic between VPC and other services does not leave the Amazon network.
1. Two Types
    - Interface Endpoints
    - ðŸ›‘  Gateway Endpoints ( Connection to S3 & DynamoDB )

## VPC Peering

1. Allows us to connect 1 VPC with another via a direct network router using private IP address
1. We can peer between regions. Transitive peering is not supported

## Sharing applications up to other VPC's  -> Private Link

1. âŽ Open VPC up to the internet
1. âŽ VPC Peering
1. âœ… Using Private Link -> Requires a Network Load Balancer on the service VPC and an ENI on the customer VPC. If we see VPCs to tens,hundreds or thousands of customer VPC , think Private Link

## VPN CloudHub

1. If you have multiple sites , each with its own VPN connection , you can use AWS VPN CloudHub to connect those sites togerther.

## Direct Connect ( DX )

1. Directly connect DataCenter to AWS
1. Usefull for high throughput workloads ( lots of network traffic )
1. Direct Connect is not encrypted by default

## Transit Gateway 

1. Simplyfy Network Topology of VPCs
1. Use route tables to limit how VPCs talk to one another

## AWS Wavelength = Mobile Edge Computing
 