# Route 53

1. Amazons DNS service [ DNS - Converts  domain name to IP Address ]
1. Route 53 is amazons DNS
1. `(AWS) Alias records` : Map onto a naked domain name
1. `CNAME records`: Cannot Map onto a naked domain name
1. Always choose `Alias` over `CNAME`
1. We can create health checks to validate IP address.

### Simple Routing Policy

1. Routing in this context means mapping your website url to EC2 IP's.
    - Routing is different from DNS records types such as `SOA,A,AAA,CNAME,Alias`
1. One record with multiple IP addresses. ( Multiple EC2 instances )
1. If we specify multiple values ( IP's ) , routing in done in an random order 

### Weighted Routing Policy

1. Routing to different IP's ( EC2 Machines ) based on weight [ out of 100 ]
1. If we include health checks as part of the policy. If a machines health check fails , routing to it will be stopped.

### Failover Routing Policy  

1. Using health check to set up `active` & `passive`.
1. `Active` server fails , route everything to the `passive` machine.

### Geolocation Routing Policy 

1. Geographic location of end-user. 

### Geoproximity Routing Policy

1. `Geographic` location + `Bias`
1. Complicated.
1. Must have Route 53 Traffic flow setup

### Latency Routing Policy

1. Based on `Lowest network latency` of the end user.
1. We must create Latency based record set


### MultiValue Routing Policy

1. Simple Routine but with Health Checks 

## FYI

1. IPV4 is 32 bits
1. IPV6 is 128 bits
1. Domain Levels : `bbc.co.uk`
    - Top level domain is `uk`
    - Second level domain is `co`
1. Top level domains are controlled by `IANA`
1. Common DNS record types
    - `SOA` : Server name , Admin, current version
    - `A` : Most common type of DNS record
    - `CNAME` : Canonical name used to resolve one domain name to another.
    - `Alias` [ AWS ONLY ] : Map resource record sets in our hosted zone to load balancers , CloudFront distributions, S3 buckets that are configured as websites
1. `NS` : Name server records
    - Used by top level domain server to direct traffic to the content DNS server
    - `NS` records points to `SOA`,etc
1. `TTL` : DNS record cached on users PC